README.md, before:

# DealWing ✈️

> **Find the best flight deals, visualized on an interactive map.**

DealWing is a full-stack portfolio project that helps users discover affordable flights through a beautiful split-view interface: a smart search form on the left, a live map with arc routes and price bubbles on the right.

Powered by **[Duffel](https://duffel.com)** (Sandbox).

---

## Features

### Core MVP

- **Interactive map** — MapLibre GL JS with curved arc routes + animated price bubble markers
- **Airport autocomplete** — debounced search with IATA/city/country matching
- **Flight search** — one-way & round-trip, date pickers, adults selector, currency switcher
- **Deal Score (0–100)** — composite score vs. the full result set (price 60%, duration 30%, stops 10%)
- **CO₂ estimation** — approximate per-passenger emissions (ICAO method, with disclaimer)
- **Search history** — last 8 searches in localStorage, one-click restore
- **Saved flights** — heart-save any offer, review at `/saved`
- **Filters & sorting** — max price slider, stops filter, airline selector; sort by price/duration/deal score
- **Flight detail modal** — full itinerary, segments, layovers, deal gauge, CO₂ card

### UX / DX

- Keyboard shortcuts: `/` → focus search field, `Esc` → close modal
- Skeleton loading cards + graceful empty / error states
- Dark mode via `prefers-color-scheme` + CSS custom properties
- Micro-animations: Framer Motion stagger cards, spring modal, fade toasts
- Collapsible sidebar with animated toggle
- Fully accessible: ARIA roles, focus trap in modal, keyboard nav in autocomplete
- Mobile responsive (drawer layout on small screens)

---

## Tech Stack

| Layer         | Technology                                               |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| Frontend      | React 19 + Vite 7                                        |
| Routing       | React Router v7                                          |
| Data fetching | TanStack Query v5                                        |
| Forms         | react-hook-form + Zod v4                                 |
| HTTP          | Native `fetch` (no axios)                                |
| Map           | MapLibre GL JS v5 + OpenFreeMap tiles (free, no API key) |
| Animations    | Framer Motion v12                                        |
| Styling       | CSS Modules + CSS custom properties                      |
| BFF           | Vercel Serverless Functions (`/api/`)                    |
| Flight API    | Duffel (Sandbox)                                         |
| Testing       | Vitest + Testing Library + Playwright                    |
| Lint/Format   | ESLint 9 + Prettier                                      |
| Git hooks     | Husky v9 + lint-staged                                   |
| CI            | GitHub Actions                                           |
| Deploy        | Vercel (frontend + functions)                            |

---

## Architecture

```
dealwing/
├── api/                         # Vercel Serverless Functions (BFF)
│   ├── _duffel.js               # Duffel API helper (duffelPost)
│   ├── _mock.js                 # Realistic mock data (no credentials needed)
│   ├── offers.js                # POST /api/offers → Duffel offer_requests
│   └── locations.js             # GET /api/locations?q=... (local dataset)
│
├── src/
│   ├── app/                     # Router, providers, layout, header
│   ├── pages/                   # Home, Saved, NotFound
│   ├── features/
│   │   ├── search/              # SearchForm, AirportAutocomplete, schema, history
│   │   ├── flights/             # api, hooks, mapper, dealScore, CO2, cards, detail
│   │   ├── map/                 # MapView + useMap hook
│   │   └── saved/               # useSaved hook + SavedList
│   ├── components/ui/           # Button, Modal, Skeleton, Badge, Toast
│   ├── hooks/                   # useLocalStorage, useKeyboard
│   ├── lib/                     # airports (~100), formatters, geo, http, queryKeys
│   └── styles/                  # variables.css (design tokens), reset.css
│
├── e2e/                         # Playwright end-to-end tests
├── .github/workflows/ci.yml    # Lint + test + build CI
└── vercel.json
```

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/dealwing.git
cd dealwing
npm install
```

### 2. Configure environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

For **local development with mock data** (no Duffel account needed):

```env
VITE_MOCK_API=true
```

For **real Duffel data** (register at https://app.duffel.com, then grab an access token):

```env
VITE_MOCK_API=false
DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN=duffel_test_your_token_here
```

### 3. Run locally

```bash
# Mock mode — frontend only, no backend needed
npm run dev

# Real Duffel — start Vercel dev server (frontend + /api functions)
npx vercel dev
```

Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) (or port shown in terminal).

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable              | Description                                 | Default         |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| `VITE_MOCK_API`       | `"true"` → skip BFF, use built-in mock data | `"true"` in dev |
| `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Duffel access token (never sent to browser) | —               |

---

## Scripts

```bash
npm run dev           # Vite dev server (http://localhost:5173)
npm run build         # Production build
npm run preview       # Serve production build locally
npm run lint          # ESLint (errors = fail)
npm run lint:fix      # ESLint with auto-fix
npm run format        # Prettier — format all files
npm run format:check  # Prettier — CI check (no write)
npm run test          # Vitest unit tests (single run)
npm run test:watch    # Vitest watch mode
npm run test:e2e      # Playwright end-to-end
```

---

## API Integration

DealWing proxies all external calls through a small BFF layer (`/api/`) so API keys are never exposed in the browser.

### Duffel endpoints used

| Endpoint                   | Purpose              |
| -------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `POST /air/offer_requests` | Search flight offers |

Airport autocomplete is served from a local static dataset — Duffel does not provide a free airport search endpoint.

### Mock mode

Set `VITE_MOCK_API=true` (default in development) to use the built-in mock dataset — no Duffel account required. Includes ~20 realistic offers from **MAD**, **LHR**, and **JFK** origins.

---

## Deployment (Vercel)

1. Push to GitHub and import the repo in [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
2. Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard:
   - `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` — your Duffel access token
   - `VITE_MOCK_API` = `false`
3. Deploy — Vercel auto-detects Vite + the `/api/` serverless functions

---

## Roadmap

- [ ] **Explore mode** — cheapest destinations from any origin (no fixed destination)
- [ ] **Price calendar** — heatmap of cheapest days
- [ ] **Multi-city** — add a leg builder for complex itineraries
- [ ] **Booking links** — affiliate redirects (Kayak, Google Flights)
- [ ] **Price alerts** — notify when a saved search drops in price
- [ ] **PWA** — offline support + install prompt

---

## License

MIT — Built for portfolio purposes. Not affiliated with Duffel.com Ltd.

Commit message:

feat!: integrar búsqueda real con AeroDataBox/Duffel y rediseñar flujo de vuelos
- API: elimina mocks (`api/_mock.js`, `api/flight-offers.js`, `api/_amadeus.js`) y exige credenciales server-side.
- `/api/locations` ahora consulta AeroDataBox (mín. 3 caracteres), normaliza respuesta y mejora manejo de errores/cache.
- `/api/offers` retorna `503` si falta `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN`; el frontend ya no usa respuestas mock.
- `vite.config.js`: agrega plugin local para resolver `/api/*` en dev con handlers tipo Vercel y carga de env completa.
- Búsqueda: validación Zod traducible, mensajes i18n nuevos, contador de pasajeros robusto, historial con etiquetas y borrado individual.
- Vuelos: `flightMapper` pasa a precio por pasajero, usa emisiones de Duffel con fallback, y propaga logos/coordenadas.
- UI: simplifica `FlightCard`/`FlightDetail` (sin UI de deal score), incorpora set amplio de íconos reutilizables y ajustes visuales.
- Mapa: deduplica rutas por destino, usa marcadores DOM personalizados y expone `flyToDest` desde `MapView`.
- Setup/deploy: actualiza `README`, `.env.example`, `.env.development`, `ci.yml`, `vercel.json` y agrega `vercel` en dependencias.

BREAKING CHANGE: se elimina el modo mock (`VITE_MOCK_API` queda sin uso) y ahora el flujo completo depende de `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` y `RAPIDAPI_KEY` en entorno server/BFF.

README.md, after:

# DealWing ✈️

> **Find the best flight deals, visualized on an interactive map.**

DealWing is a full-stack portfolio project that helps users discover affordable flights through a beautiful split-view interface: a smart search form on the left, a live map with arc routes and price bubbles on the right.

Powered by **[Duffel](https://duffel.com)** (Sandbox).

---

## Features

### Core MVP

- **Interactive map** — MapLibre GL JS with curved arc routes + animated price bubble markers
- **Airport autocomplete** — debounced search with IATA/city/country matching
- **Flight search** — one-way & round-trip, date pickers, adults selector, currency switcher
- **Deal Score (0–100)** — composite score vs. the full result set (price 60%, duration 30%, stops 10%)
- **CO₂ estimation** — approximate per-passenger emissions (ICAO method, with disclaimer)
- **Search history** — last 8 searches in localStorage, one-click restore
- **Saved flights** — heart-save any offer, review at `/saved`
- **Filters & sorting** — max price slider, stops filter, airline selector; sort by price/duration/deal score
- **Flight detail modal** — full itinerary, segments, layovers, deal gauge, CO₂ card

### UX / DX

- Keyboard shortcuts: `/` → focus search field, `Esc` → close modal
- Skeleton loading cards + graceful empty / error states
- Dark mode via `prefers-color-scheme` + CSS custom properties
- Micro-animations: Framer Motion stagger cards, spring modal, fade toasts
- Collapsible sidebar with animated toggle
- Fully accessible: ARIA roles, focus trap in modal, keyboard nav in autocomplete
- Mobile responsive (drawer layout on small screens)

---

## Tech Stack

| Layer         | Technology                                               |
| ------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| Frontend      | React 19 + Vite 7                                        |
| Routing       | React Router v7                                          |
| Data fetching | TanStack Query v5                                        |
| Forms         | react-hook-form + Zod v4                                 |
| HTTP          | Native `fetch` (no axios)                                |
| Map           | MapLibre GL JS v5 + OpenFreeMap tiles (free, no API key) |
| Animations    | Framer Motion v12                                        |
| Styling       | CSS Modules + CSS custom properties                      |
| BFF           | Vercel Serverless Functions (`/api/`)                    |
| Flight API    | Duffel (Sandbox)                                         |
| Testing       | Vitest + Testing Library + Playwright                    |
| Lint/Format   | ESLint 9 + Prettier                                      |
| Git hooks     | Husky v9 + lint-staged                                   |
| CI            | GitHub Actions                                           |
| Deploy        | Vercel (frontend + functions)                            |

---

## Architecture

```
dealwing/
├── api/                         # Vercel Serverless Functions (BFF)
│   ├── _duffel.js               # Duffel API helper (duffelPost)
│   ├── _mock.js                 # Realistic mock data (no credentials needed)
│   ├── offers.js                # POST /api/offers → Duffel offer_requests
│   └── locations.js             # GET /api/locations?q=... (local dataset)
│
├── src/
│   ├── app/                     # Router, providers, layout, header
│   ├── pages/                   # Home, Saved, NotFound
│   ├── features/
│   │   ├── search/              # SearchForm, AirportAutocomplete, schema, history
│   │   ├── flights/             # api, hooks, mapper, dealScore, CO2, cards, detail
│   │   ├── map/                 # MapView + useMap hook
│   │   └── saved/               # useSaved hook + SavedList
│   ├── components/ui/           # Button, Modal, Skeleton, Badge, Toast
│   ├── hooks/                   # useLocalStorage, useKeyboard
│   ├── lib/                     # airports (~100), formatters, geo, http, queryKeys
│   └── styles/                  # variables.css (design tokens), reset.css
│
├── e2e/                         # Playwright end-to-end tests
├── .github/workflows/ci.yml    # Lint + test + build CI
└── vercel.json
```

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm 10+

### 1. Clone and install

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/dealwing.git
cd dealwing
npm install
```

### 2. Configure environment

```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

For **local development with mock data** (no Duffel account needed):

```env
VITE_MOCK_API=true
```

For **real Duffel data** (register at https://app.duffel.com, then grab an access token):

```env
VITE_MOCK_API=false
DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN=duffel_test_your_token_here
```

### 3. Run locally

You need the BFF running for airport search and flight offers.

```bash
# Frontend + API (recommended): Vercel dev server runs both
npx vercel dev
```

Then open the URL shown (e.g. [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173)).

- **Airport search**: ensure `RAPIDAPI_KEY` is set in `.env.local` or `.env.development` (Vercel loads both in dev). Without it, `/api/locations` falls back to a small static list.
- **Flight search**: ensure `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` is set (same env files). Without it, `/api/offers` returns 503.

If you run only `npm run dev`, the app will try to proxy `/api` to `http://localhost:3000`; nothing will be there unless you run the API separately.

---

## Environment Variables

| Variable              | Description                                                                                    | Default                       |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `VITE_MOCK_API`       | `"true"` → skip BFF, use built-in mock data                                                    | Unused (app always calls BFF) |
| `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Duffel token (flight search); server-only                                                      | —                             |
| `RAPIDAPI_KEY`        | RapidAPI key for AeroDataBox (airport search); server-only. Put in `.env.local` for local dev. | —                             |

---

## Scripts

```bash
npm run dev           # Vite dev server (http://localhost:5173)
npm run build         # Production build
npm run preview       # Serve production build locally
npm run lint          # ESLint (errors = fail)
npm run lint:fix      # ESLint with auto-fix
npm run format        # Prettier — format all files
npm run format:check  # Prettier — CI check (no write)
npm run test          # Vitest unit tests (single run)
npm run test:watch    # Vitest watch mode
npm run test:e2e      # Playwright end-to-end
```

---

## API Integration

DealWing proxies all external calls through a small BFF layer (`/api/`) so API keys are never exposed in the browser.

### Duffel endpoints used

| Endpoint                   | Purpose              |
| -------------------------- | -------------------- |
| `POST /air/offer_requests` | Search flight offers |

Airport autocomplete is served from a local static dataset — Duffel does not provide a free airport search endpoint.

### Mock mode

Set `VITE_MOCK_API=true` (default in development) to use the built-in mock dataset — no Duffel account required. Includes ~20 realistic offers from **MAD**, **LHR**, and **JFK** origins.

---

## Deployment (Vercel)

1. Push to GitHub and import the repo in [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
2. Set environment variables in Vercel dashboard:
   - `DUFFEL_ACCESS_TOKEN` — your Duffel access token
   - `VITE_MOCK_API` = `false`
3. Deploy — Vercel auto-detects Vite + the `/api/` serverless functions

---

## Roadmap

- [ ] **Explore mode** — cheapest destinations from any origin (no fixed destination)
- [ ] **Price calendar** — heatmap of cheapest days
- [ ] **Multi-city** — add a leg builder for complex itineraries
- [ ] **Booking links** — affiliate redirects (Kayak, Google Flights)
- [ ] **Price alerts** — notify when a saved search drops in price
- [ ] **PWA** — offline support + install prompt

---

## License

MIT — Built for portfolio purposes. Not affiliated with Duffel.com Ltd.
